# Wildfire-Risk-and-Hazard

A team of five Masters students at the Bren School of Environmental Science & Management at UC Santa Barbara have analyzed and provided guidance on the addition of “Wildfire Risk and Hazard” to the Timber Harvest Plan documentation. This new section requires permit applicants to determine whether timber harvest will cause significant, cumulative environmental impacts on existing wildfire risk and hazard conditions. However, a standardized methodology to evaluate changes to Wildfire Risk and Hazard had not been developed. To address this need, the Bren School team synthesized forest and fire science theory, models, and expert knowledge to develop three approaches for assessing wildfire hazard and two approaches for wildfire risk. These methods are accompanied by a decision tree, which instructs for wildfire hazard that a) all permit applicants conduct a qualitative assessment and b) large-harvest applicants quantify hazard with either model-simulated tree growth over 30 years or historical spatial data. For wildfire risk, our decision tree instructs a) small-harvest applicants to consider high-value infrastructure within a given buffer and b) large-harvest applicants to model risk using the wildfire hazard results. Together, this recommended approach guides permit applicants through a standardized Wildfire Risk and Hazard assessment that relies on publicly accessible data, consistent definitions and metrics, credible models, and the best available science. Attached are (1) a memorandum that summarizes the team’s recommendations for CAL FIRE, other pertinent agencies, and researchers and (2) a Guidance Document that walks potential users (i.e. RPFs) through the team’s proposed methodology. For any questions or comments, please reach out to the team at gp-citeplan@bren.ucsb.edu
